# Quarkus extension for SmallRye AsyncAPI

The Quarkus extension for SmallRye AsyncAPI is an extension for the Quarkus
framework. The extension integrates the SmallRye implementation of OK-Profile
AsyncAPI with Quarkus. It is planned to provide the extension to the Quarkus
project in the future.

== Quarkus Extension

=== What is a Quarkus extension?

Think of Quarkus extensions as your project dependencies. Extensions configure,
boot and integrate a framework or technology into your Quarkus application.
They also do all of the heavy lifting of providing the right information to
GraalVM for your application to compile natively.

Quarkus extensions add a new developer focused behavior to the core offering,
and consist of two distinct parts, buildtime augmentation and runtime
container. The augmentation part is responsible for all metadata processing,
such as reading annotations, XML descriptors etc. The output of this
augmentation phase is recorded bytecode which is responsible for directly
instantiating the relevant runtime services.

This means that metadata is only processed once at build time, which both
saves on startup time, and also on memory usage as the classes etc that are
used for processing are not loaded (or even present) in the runtime JVM.

=== Why an extension framework?

Quarkusâ€™s mission is to transform your entire application including the
libraries it uses, into an artifact that uses significantly less resources than
traditional approaches. These can then be used to build native applications
using GraalVM. To do this you need to analyze and understand the full "closed
world" of the application. Without the full and complete context, the best that
can be achieved is partial and limited generic support. By using the Quarkus
extension approach, we can bring Java applications in line with memory
footprint constrained environments like Kubernetes or cloud platforms.

The Quarkus extension framework results in significantly improved resource
utilization even when GraalVM is not used (e.g. in HotSpot)

=== Favor build time work over runtime work

As much as possible favor doing work at build time (deployment part of the
extension) as opposed to let the framework do work at startup time (runtime).
The more is done there, the smaller Quarkus applications using that extension
will be and the faster they will load.